yeah is that a good squad 10% Jen Elton
I'm attractive and we are going to do a
butt session well she's gonna do the bus
session I'm gonna train with her and I'm
just gonna squat and we're gonna show
you how Patti uses her strength training
to build some serious muscle with her
favorite exercises and what are your
favorite exercises what building booty
that is definitely low bar squat every
local heavy load a squat and hip thrusts
get faster variations so we both of them
together
yes and together they are delicious and
awful at the same time are we gonna do a
high volume or highway thanks
we're gonna do both but we don't usually
see but you're gonna see it now yeah
that's good
[Music]
how many ropes do you typically do even
before I get to the platform I've done
some bandage squats warm my glutes up
and really focus on that cue of
spreading the floor and knees out so
there's quite a bit that happens before
I even get to the platform and then a
lot before I get under the bar so
something that's worth noticing is when
she speaks about using bands to teach
her with the cue of pushing her knees
out and spreading the floor she's not
really using the bands to really build
glutes she's using it to warm up so she
can do some really effective exercises
that will definitely be building glutes
so it's an activation series that she
did before that's not to build massive
birds or massive muscles it's just a
teacher how to move properly which is
very important for building muscle and
that's what you're gonna see now
definitely one of the best cues that I
like to use with squatting and it
doesn't always resonate with everyone
but it definitely resonated with me was
spreading the floor so
photocard the floor with is aligned and
they come into the top position and they
want to teach their feet to pretend that
they're spreading the floor apart so
they're trying to actually make this
line spread and they're using that by
digging the the energy I guess from
their glutes into the floor and driving
those knees out so in that position here
they're really using this the cue of
external rotation at the hip for the
knees to come out and I really felt that
it helped for help me utilize my mic
glutes
Borana squat then than anything else
[Music]
today I'm going up in 25 kilo increments
so whether I use reds or blues I like to
do one big plate and then half of that
then another big plate then half of that
so these are 25 kilograms half of that
is 12 and 1/2 so that's what these are
on the sides so I'm going to go red and
then 1/2 and actually it's going to be 2
Reds it'll be 2 and a half and 3 Reds 3
& a half 4 up until I get to 5 Reds
which is 270 and at that point I put
these little pieces of change on there
that's one point two five kilograms one
on each side if you can do 270 you can
also do 272 doesn't always work that way
but that's what I'm hoping for today
other reason I'm doing that is because
600 pounds in America very good if you
do two hundred and seventy kilograms
it's not quite 600 pounds the reason why
I have to eat just before I train is
because when I start there's nothing
really intense
for about the first hour at least so it
doesn't bother me at all that I've got a
food a fairly a belly full of food yeah
I need a belly full of food now to feel
like I'm gonna have the energy in the
session because when it starts working
that food is digested so when I start
getting up to my work weight I mean this
the food is digested and I need that
energy okay
so after she did just bodyweight squats
she moved on to the empty bar and then
after the empty bar she put five
kilogram plates on each side so the
empty bars 20 so she's done 20 kilograms
30 kilograms 40 kilograms and our next
weight is going to be what Haddie
[Music]
we'll be going up lots and lots and lots
of time spent warming up so it's not
just about strong girl so she can warm
up with really really heavy weights
she'll get there and usually even for
handy that'll take at least half an hour
yeah first offset well we'll see well
time will get the time of the first set
and and we'll put it to practice but
usually when we train we don't really
put us like with the strength session
it's pretty hard to give yourself a time
limit because they just take longer time
and I just don't perform as well so now
I've learnt that just to give myself you
know even up to three hours sometimes to
do a sports session and
like the volume is is low but the
intensity from the weights is high and
the rest of it like I'm resting four to
five minutes for this kind of work if I
was to do conditioning work my rest
period is like typical depends actually
what I'm doing but it might be twenty
seconds to a minute but if we're doing a
heavy conditioning session like in the
past we've done four workouts and I've
needed three a three-minute rest before
I do the next round because I'm doing
such heavy volume in order to perform at
that level
I need the recovery and that was a
really hard thing to learn over time
coming from someone who only wanted to
rest for a minute
so then having to rest for four minutes
but I learned very quickly that if I
wanted to be as strong as possible
I needed to respect the recovery time to
allow that and then on the other side of
the spectrum I'll be resting probably
about with my knee wraps that's because
it takes a longer time to wrap my knees
but today I'm not wrapping my knees so
I'm sure between my top sets it's
probably going to be six to seven
minutes which is a long period of time
if I write that on paper to get a novice
lifters the rest of six to seven minutes
between sets they'd probably throw that
program in the bin but that's how I do
it
oh bus sitting on her rear deltoids
hands as close as her shoulder mobility
mobility allows go shoulder blades back
and down towards her back pockets to
make sure all of these muscles are on
and strong very important to have
everything this is where the barbell
sits everything from here down is what's
working so if this is loose and arms of
water their shoulders are relaxed her
spine is weak so we need to make torso
rigidity create torso rigidity out of
squeezing her elbows back and shoulders
down so that's as hard as
rakh she'll take that jacket off soon
and see all the muscles rippling soon
[Music]
today I'm using the regular IPF bar
that's 20 kilograms and the reason why
is because that way I can have 5 Reds
and it'll still be 272 kilograms so
it'll be 270 and then I have a little
squat bar that's 25 kilograms it'll be 4
Reds of blue and then ugly stuff so we
don't want to do that I'll tell you in
my experience working with these two
let's give him a bit of an introduction
not that they need one sunny Webster
Olympic level weightlifter what weight
division were you 94 94 kilo weight
class in the 2016 Olympics Erin Crowell
105 kilogram lifter so he's in a weight
class above so we can expect that he's
got a higher level of absolute strength
but he's actually newer to the game than
sunny Sunny's got more experience in 25
but I know he's been doing it for a
longer time and from a technical
standpoint from a non weight lifters
perspective something that I see about
sunny he's very fast under the bar which
I just love watching not that not that
Erin isn't fast
I will I will tell you he's not as fast
as as sunny he's got a lot more absolute
strength carrying that over for him if
we can get him to put his strength in
with a little bit more technial that way
more than they're so so from from where
I'm sitting
I'd say that this exercise Erin benefit
a lot more from it than you at this
point but yeah Sonny's son is helping
Erin a lot with his technique it's hard
sometimes especially when me and Erin
are training together because if he's
doing the same exercise with me they're
not going to benefit him as much so
sometimes we do have to even though
we're gonna still we're trying the same
power different emphasis on this
exercise so I'm probably any energy to
drop snatch man up to a certain weight
and then do rope head squats to stretch
out my sitting position which I need
more than he does and he's gonna work on
strength needs stability in the couch
what are you stretching out here bears
just got a few tender spots in my quads
and it just takes a bit of well this
doesn't really fix anything it's kind of
more of a damn guide it just softens up
the muscle so that when I dump it which
is what I'm trying to do at the bottom
when I do a full squat I pause at the
bottom and then I trying to hit it
harder that's this makes it more
comfortable for me it's part of my
warmup procedure
why don't we have a look at all the
techniques user had he's gonna focus on
from the start of the lift all the way
to the end check it out he grabs at the
bar as close as her shoulder mobility
allows for her that's a very close grip
for me it's not so close she places the
barbell on the shelf crowded by her rear
delts so it's sitting on soft tissue not
on any bony landmarks she pulls her
elbows in and saw blades down towards
her back pockets look at all these
muscles engaged they are on to support
her spine throughout the entire movement
because this is a squat she is loading
her spine so she has to make sure that
every part from underneath the bar is on
and strong big breath to unwrap that
weight she's going to step it out and it
takes roughly three steps looking
straight ahead and this shows the
movement by taking a big breath and
spreading the floor pushing the knees
down the same direction as a toast
opening her hips it's three ways of
saying the exact same thing big breath
controls the way down to the bottom
position as it falls away straight back
up that's 90 kilograms warm-ups looking
good so far I'd say the next set is
going to be 100
[Music]
anyway it should be easier this way
we've still got another hundred
kilograms to go one hundred and two
kilograms ago
[Music]
perfection at its finest
yeah man is that a good squad 10%
channel 10
I'm attractive
okay so how do you just did 100
kilograms she went up in 10 kilogram
jumps to get there and now she's going
to go up in 5 kilogram jumps to reach
her top set so as she gets closer and
closer to the top set
she'll reduce the increment increase
just to make it feel easier on her body
she probably could continue in 10 kilo
jumps but things start to slow down and
I find not just with Hattie but with
most of the women that I've worked with
with strength training they like to take
a lot more time warming up what are your
thoughts on slow warm-ups have you
definitely I feel like females respond
much better to slow warm-ups just takes
a little bit longer for me to like like
neroli like switch on there are some
days where I feel that I can do bigger
job some of those days we do but you
know perfect techniques makes a perfect
squat so I'd rather just hit those
numbers
this isn't demanding on me so it's not a
fatigue it's just like when you do glute
activation work it's not there to
fatigue you it's just there to activate
so that when you do do your compound
movement or your your heavy set the
thing that's actually going to change
your body that you're ready and primed
for it so 105 kilograms
opening
[Music]
thank you thank you thank you so few
wanted to know what I was doing then I
just changed the rack position so I was
doing all of my warm-ups with it's
called racks in so that I can put my
hands on the outside of that but as I'm
getting warmer my shoulders are getting
warmer and as we spoke about with the
mobility cube for the upper body hands
go as close as shoulder mobility allows
so as I'm getting warm on my mobility
it's allowing me to bring my hands in
closer and closer so now I get to the
higher weight I can squeeze my upper
body a little bit tighter which helps me
a lot as I get to this highway it so
racks out
[Music]
245 killer hands
that's my last warm-up light next one is
gonna be 5 Reds little change which is
the tune 1 2011 each side so that'll
make it 272 funny thing it's like I've
got to feel it on my back it's like when
I sit down this it's gonna be resting on
my back here I can feel it resting on my
back and then I just yeah I feel I felt
tired so I'm gonna do that on the next
set
it's funny because I can lose the
technique just that quickly
[Music]
[Applause]
so I'm due for the 150 and now it's just
like this is why we're doing a lot of
working up to single so improving the
technique of putting a heavy spot as a
single is very much a skill and I don't
think it's a matter of whether you're
able to hit it 150 kilograms or not I
just think that your competitions get in
the way of my strength work well I mean
of course that's the priority and that's
why you're doing all of the strength
work so that you can look good on stage
and there has to come to a point where
you're going to switch over to the stuff
that actually matters for you but I
guarantee you if all you did was if all
you did was pure strength work why we
laughing did I say something wrong
and if all we did was fuel strength work
130 would be your average alright and
150 kilograms would have been done a
long time ago but that's okay because it
doesn't have to be everyone else's goal
to have the same goals as mine if you're
going now
[Music]
right there
right now
[Music]
if that problem is a proper power drain
brother with the proper power clean
[Music]
start over the front but now every inch
matters that's just outside of the
kneecap I press down in the center of
the wrap right where this gap is just
that's the base in my patella and
there's my first rats there's my first
revolution to anchor it then I go half
the thickness of the wrap times four
that is how doesn't need a base thicker
than that crossover the patella and then
for this one I'll Tyler off yeah so
that's that's only uh six revolutions
these are the best yes these are so
comfortable
yeah these are like some faisal you
remember faisal how funny that guy was
okay
yep back down sets is kind of not really
back down sets I'm starting up on a new
exercise so I'm doing rat squats now no
expectation I've done my cool stuff
today and now it's just about
redeveloping the skill of wrapped squats
I'm currently getting about 20 kilos out
of these things and I can get about 50
kilograms but it takes practice so
that's what I'm doing
[Music]
okay so how do you very puffed out now
so we're not gonna get her to talk I'm
sure she'll be happy with that but what
she just did was a set of 10 on 100
kilowatts followed by a set of 10 on 170
kilogram glute bridges hip thrusters
what's that what do you call that a
hipster or a glute bridge give thrusts
out whatever it is it's a barbell and
it's heavy and we don't two back-to-back
sets 10 110 on 170 that's high weight
high volume and that's our favorite way
especially had his favorite way of
building glutes that's one round
[Music]
right there
right now
[Music]
alright guys that was the end of the
session we just did a few top sets that
are different to each other I worked on
poor squatting and had he worked on
really heavy stuff which was a lot more
difficult than my session my intensity
was mine but my volume was lower as had
his intensity was high and her volume
was high which usually doesn't go
together but in this instance it's her
favorite way to Train I felt great but
if I was almost buggered by the end it's
been a while since we've done a session
like that which is definite it's
actually my favorite way to trains
doing a heavy single because I love the
skill of doing a heavy single it's super
empowering and then I'm also a volume
machine so I love doing heavy volume I
do have a goal and I'm gonna say it
right here so it has to be done of doing
a 120 kilos for 10 reps into ideally a
heavy hip thrust to get the 121st which
I was more looking forward to your 1 rep
max Kol I thought you'd want to know
that's my day I do also have a 1 rep max
goal so I'm setting my bar really
frickin high 150 but before the end of
the year so I think that can all be done
at the same session if we structure it
like we did today 150 kilo top set
followed by 124 tens yeah but today just
a recap how do you did 130 kilogram top
set followed by set of 10 squats
superset into glute bridges with 170
kilograms for 10 reps you did three
rounds of that which is just huge
especially for a little chick who's just
trying to get in shape so she can stand
up on stage for a WBFF fitness model
show
so that was it I hope you guys enjoyed
it until next time see you guys soon
[Music]